An open-source toolkit for infrared calculation and data processing

Electro-optical system design, data analysis and modelling involves a significant amount of calculation and processing. Many of these calculations are of a repetitive and general nature, suitable for adding to a generic toolkit. The availability of a toolkit facilitates and increase productivity during subsequent tool development. The concept of an extendible toolkit lends itself naturally to the open-source philosophy, where the toolkit user-base develops the capability cooperatively, for mutual benefit. This paper will cover the underlying philosophy to the toolkit development, brief descriptions and examples of the various tools used and an overview of the electro-optical toolkit. 

The toolkit is an extendable, integrated and coherent collection of basic functions, code modules, documentation, example templates, unit tests and resources, that can be applied towards diverse calculations in the electro-optics domain. The toolkit covers (1) models of physical concepts (e.g. Planck's Law), (2) mathematical operations (e.g. spectral integrals, spatial integrals, convolution), (3) data manipulation (e.g. input/output, interpolation), (4) graphical depiction (2-D and 3-D graphs), (5) graphical user interfaces, and (6) all these in an interactive development environment.

Toolkits are commonly written in scriptable languages, such as Python and Matlab. This specific toolkit is implemented in Python and its associated modules Numpy, SciPy, Matlplotlib, Mayavi, and PyQt/PySide. In recent years these tools have been well tested, stabilised and matured sufficiently to support mainstream tool development. Collectively, these tools provide a very powerful capability, even beyond the confines of this toolkit alone. Furthermore, these tools are freely available.

Rudimentary radiometric theory is given in the paper to support the examples given. Examples of the use of the toolkit described in the paper include (1) spectral radiometric calculations of arbitrary source-medium-sensor configurations, (2) thermal camera calibration and analysis of measured countermeasure flare data, (3) sensor MTF performance analysis, (4) fourier transform data analysis and (5) analysis of missile performance simulation results.

The toolkit is developed as a co-operative effort between the CSIR (South Africa), Denel SOC (South Africa) and DCTA (Brazil). Details of the open source license and URL is described in the paper. Once released, the project will be managed in accordance with general practice in the open source community.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
We must identify the people who will contribute to the code and involve them in the paper writing. Also, if we have more authors from more organisations, the toolkit takes on a more universal character, not just a toy by one person. I think that in the spirit of open source, we must be willing to have more rather than fewer authors. People that will contribute to the code could potentially be:

Denel: Pieter van der Merwe, Riana Willers, Ali Tholani, Paul Retief

DTCA: Ricardo, Lester, Magalhães, Lutty and Ciricili

CSIR: Nelis Willers, Nelia Lombard, Hannes Calitz and Azwitamisi Mudau.

 